ASTERION EXPEDITION 1.4.0 — CELESTIAL
An original, offline 3D space-exploration game.

1. Extract this entire ZIP into a writable folder.
2. Install 64-bit Python 3.10 to 3.14 if needed (Python 3.12 recommended).
3. Mac: double-click Start-Mac.command.
   Windows: double-click Start-Windows.bat.
   Linux: run sh Start-Linux.sh.

Mac alternative: open Terminal in this folder and run:
    python3 bootstrap.py

First launch installs Panda3D into a private environment beside the game.
Internet is needed for that installation. Later launches and gameplay are offline.
This is a source distribution; Python and a prebuilt game application are not included.

Choose New Expedition, or Continue to use your existing save. H opens the field guide in the game.
WASD moves, mouse looks, C scans, hold left mouse to mine.
Tap Space to jump; hold it for jetpack. Ctrl brakes in the air;
Space + Ctrl hovers. Settings adjusts FOV, camera motion and flight assist.
E or F boards your ship; Space climbs. Climb continuously through clouds and haze into orbit.
For quantum travel, climb above 3,000 m, open M and choose QUANTUM TARGET on a planet.
Q spools and aligns; press Q again at READY to engage. Q or E aborts travel.
Quantum uses ordinary ship fuel and stops in orbit near the destination.
Fly directly back into the atmosphere; F lands below 65 m and 48 m/s.
M opens navigation, K crafting, I cargo, J the journal, B construction.
Esc pauses and offers free rescue if needed. F5 saves.

README.md has setup help, controls, save locations, and current limitations.
docs/FIELD_GUIDE.md explains the first expedition step by step.
docs/REFERENCE.md lists all materials, recipes, buildings, and biomes.
docs/TEST_REPORT.md records testing and its limits.
docs/CHANGELOG.md describes the Celestial graphics update and earlier flight updates.
docs/validation-v1.4 contains actual rendered game images.
Hardware effects require OpenGL 3.2+. A compatible software renderer is available:
    python3 bootstrap.py --software
